nSeminar Spring 2015

Week 3
Questions on chapter 2:

1.  What does the book have to say about ethics and how one presents oneself?


2. What do the events in the book have to say about the invention of new technology?



Week 4
Chapter 3

1. You may or may not agree that Edison's dolls and his attempt to create a talking doll represent an objectification of women. What are the arguments that the author presents?
The author brings up Edison's relationship with the women in his family. He gave male nicknames to his wife Mina ("Billy") and his and daughter were given the nickname "George" when she worked with her father. He also talked about how electricity ,"would [let women] be free to use their brains." His dolls were clear objectification of women, using different doll parts around the world to create, "the perfect women." The dolls where created to have the perfect legs, body, arms and head. Some of these parts where bought and shipped as far away as Germany. Instead of creating a doll from scratch, he created this Frankenstein like figure, taking the best individual parts to make his creation.

 

2. What were the themes of Fritz Lang's Metropolis and Charlie Chaplin's Modern Times? How do they relate to the idea of building an automaton in human form?
Metropolis and Modern Times both shows the struggles of the impoverished industrial worker. In Metropolis, a scientist (Rotwang) builds an android in revenge of the upper-class citizens who wronged him. While this scientist is building artificial life, I see the human workers slowly turning into robots. The lower class who work the assembly line are not much different that a robot that performs minuscule tasks over and over. The disenfranchised have little choice than to become a cog in the machine that supports the upper-class. While Modern Times does not have a clear android like Metropolis, I feel like this idea of people turning into mindless androids shows this trend in the assembly line that Charlie Chapllin's movie is set in.
 

Note that we plan to put both of those films on reserve in the library



Week 5
Chapter 4

1. What is the connection between magic and automata in the text?
The magic of cinema could now replicate any object, including people. We could now essentially copy people in a moment of time and replay it, rewind it, speed a persons motions faster or slower. A person can be captured on film stock and can exist, even after the person has passed away. The biggest differences between this kind of automata and the other attempts that previous chapters talk about is film exist in a 2-D plain, while Edison's dolls where physical objects that you could touch.

2. What is the connection between magic and cinema?  Why did Melies refuse to be photographed by Binet? 
Melies was a magician or illusionist who became a pioneer in the early days of cinema. Melies did not let Binet photograph him and his theater because "the camera never lies." He did know what the tricks to be unmasked by Binet's photographs. If people know how the trick is preformed, then it's no longer magical.

A magician never revels his secrets.

3. What is the relationship between magic and science?
I think of magic as something that we can't explain. It's an illusion. Science deals with evidence. It can be explained. 

If I show a movie to someone in the 1880's they could not explain what they are seeing, it's magic to them, but to me, I do understand that a movie is a series of projected pictures. I can use science and evidence to explain what is happening.


4. What is the relationship between illusion/magic, virtual reality and reality?